+++
title = "Effects of agricultural fungicide use on Aspergillus fumigatus abundance, antifungal susceptibility, and population structure"
date = "2020-11-24"
authors = ["Amelia E Barber", "Jennifer Riedel", "Tongta Sae-Ong", "Kang Kang", "Werner Brabetz", "Holger B Deising", "Oliver Kurzai"]
doi = "10.1128/mBio.02213-20"
publication_types = ["2"]
url_pdf = "https://mbio.asm.org/content/mbio/11/6/e02213-20.full-text.pdf"
publication = "*mBio*"
abstract = "Antibiotic resistance is an increasing threat to human health. In the case of *Aspergillus fumigatus*, which is both an environmental saprobe and an opportunistic human fungal pathogen, resistance is suggested to arise from fungicide use in agriculture, as the azoles used for plant protection share the same molecular target as the frontline antifungals used clinically. However, limiting azole fungicide use on crop fields to preserve their activity for clinical use could threaten the global food supply via a reduction in yield. In this study, we clarify the link between azole fungicide use on crop fields and resistance in a prototypical human pathogen through systematic soil sampling on farms in Germany and surveying fields before and after fungicide application. We observed a reduction in the abundance of *A. fumigatus* on fields following fungicide treatment in 2017, a finding that was not observed on an organic control field with only natural plant protection agents applied. However, this finding was less pronounced during our 2018 sampling, indicating that the impact of fungicides on *A. fumigatus* population size is variable and influenced by additional factors. The overall resistance frequency among agricultural isolates is low, with only 1 to 3% of isolates from 2016 to 2018 displaying resistance to medical azoles. Isolates collected after the growing season and azole exposure show a subtle but consistent decrease in susceptibility to medical and agricultural azoles. Whole-genome sequencing indicates that, despite the alterations in antifungal susceptibility, fungicide application does not significantly affect the population structure and genetic diversity of *A. fumigatus* in fields. Given the low observed resistance rate among agricultural isolates as well the lack of genomic impact following azole application, we do not find evidence that azole use on crops is significantly driving resistance in *A. fumigatus* in this context."
+++


